---
layout: post
title: Summary of learning foreign languages in my life
tags: [languages,spanish,german,bio]
---

What sparked this post: the other day I set my browser's default language to Spanish to test something out (honestly don't even remember what it was).
Now I get emails alerting me *Tu ID de Apple se acaba de usar para descargar Xcode..*.
Lest anyone think I actually use Xcode or prefer Apple products, I'm just gonna say it now:

- I don't use Xcode. Okay, I've "used" it once, and that was tonight for like 5 seconds. Never again.
- I use a Mac for work because that's what they gave me.
- My OS of choice is definitely Linux. I run Ubuntu 20.04 and use it for everything except work.
- I have an Android phone.

Now that we've veered off course a bit, here's a quick bulleted summary of my study of languages during the first 25 years of my life.

- Had Spanish in home school, mostly remember singing
- 2nd-4th grade, Spanish immersion program
- 8th-10th grade, took German for three years.
- 11th-12th grade, took Spanish 3 and AP Spanish. Scored a 3 on AP Spanish test
- Spent 2 years speaking and studying Spanish every day in Texas on a mission for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
- Studied Spanish Translation at BYU, graduated with B.A. in 2019

In addition to the above, I've had many opportunities to practice speaking Spanish in almost every job I ever had.
For example, I had native Spanish-speaking coworkers in 4 of 7 jobs. I also took care of Spanish-speaking customers at Jiffy Lube.

I also have always made friends from other countries and cultures and tried to learn their languages, always asking how to say things, if I'm saying things right, etc.
As I'm writing this I realize I have had less interaction with non-native English speakers recently.
To be fair, I've had less interaction with literally everyone since coronavirus happened, besides my wife and son of course.
Another thing I realize is I don't really have anything on the list after graduating from BYU.
I'm going to change that. Stay tuned.
