---
layout: post
title: Racquetball canceled, what next? RUNNING
tags: [exercise,running,health]
---

I decided to start running just over a month ago.
In the past few years, I haven't really done much exercise. 
The most regular routine I've had in the past 4 years is racquetball twice a week for a class at BYU.
TBH I've taken 4 racquetball classes and I would be taking another one soon if it weren't for the COVID-19 situation. 
Back in March when it all went down and everything started closing, my racquetball class went remote, too.
Idk if you've ever tried it, but remote racquetball isn't quite as good as in-person.

Since March, I have mostly just sat on my rear all day, gone on evening walks with my wife and kid,
and every so often join my wife for an arm or ab workout in the morning.
Then I decided to start running again. 
For about a month, I would get up Monday morning and go run a couple miles.
Then the rest of the week - nothing. 

Then one Sunday afternoon I was talking to my brother in law.
He'd recently lost a decent bit of weight and was looking healthy.
I asked him how he did it, and he said it was watching his calories and macro nutrients (fats, carbs, proteins).
Well, I had tried counting calories before, but didn't stick with it for super long.
This time I figured I'd give it another go.

I downloaded the MyFitnessPal calorie counter app and started keeping track of everything I ate (again).
I also downloaded MapMyRun to keep track of my running times and distances. 
Turns out I could also use Samsung Health for that, but I haven't tried it out yet.
Anyway, I kept track of my calories for 2 or 3 weeks, then slowly stopped logging everything. 
BUT, I haven't stopped running :grin:.

Running has been so great.
It's been about six weeks now that I've been running 3 to 5 times a week.
I usually go about 6am, give or take a few minutes. 
Most mornings it's around 62 degrees Fahrenheit, which is a beautiful temperature if you ask me.

### Stats
The farthest I've ran this month is 6 miles, took me just over an hour.

The fastest mile I've ran this month is 7 minutes and 35 seconds.

The fastest three miles I've ran this month is 26 minutes and 27 seconds (averages of 8:48 per mile).

The total distance I've ran this month so far is 46.2 miles.

The other day I saw someone on Twitter say they were running 100km to support some charitable cause.
I think that's very noble. I'm not supporting any specific cause with my running, but I liked the idea of 100km.
It's a nice even number.
So that's my goal by the end of July 2020 - run at least 100km.
100km is about 62.something miles, so I have about 16 miles left to run in the next week.
I'll make sure to come back and add a quick update about how I did, and my new stats and whatnot.


